monday
2023-01-02

first monday of the year. two big lessons: using absolute positioning is a bad idea
and a focused 2-hour session on Monday is more productive than the entire Friday
afternoon. finished developing the step by step component on a new company project
after being stuck since last year. flexboxes, flexboxes everywhere.


tuesday
2023-01-03

a ghost from the past took away most of my day. minor content adjustments from an older
task to be deployed tomorrow. reduced scope so it could get through in time. started
developing a dropdown component for the new company project. negotiated working hours for
tomorrow, since i'll be travelling back to florianopolis.


wednesday
2023-01-04

nothing but buses, traffic, uber and planes. thought i'd be able to work a few hours in
the afternoon, but i arrived too late.


thursday
2023-01-05

continued development of select component (renamed from dropdown). had a hard time
typing an onClick function in React + TypeScript. FormEvent and MouseEvent lead to "no
overload matches this call". called for help, we couldn't get around it and opted for a
cheeky any + eslint disable.


friday
2023-01-06

spent time styling an refactoring the select component. got familiar with passing onClick
functions as props to react components. onClick && onClick(). created state for isOpen,
as well as logic for toggling onClick and handleOutsideClick + eventListener. sent PR.


monday
2023-01-09

my pr was unapproved: any not allowed! turns out the event should have been typed MouseEvent
instead of React.MouseEvent. fixed this and refactored some import/exports around the repo.


tuesday
2023-01-10

suffered with terrible internet in the afternoon. ended up doing mostly content edits
and code reviews.


wednesday
2023-01-11

welcomed back my PM (from vacation). asked for new tasks since the ones I had were blocked.
got assigned two simple tasks on another project. took time to set up that project, do 1 task
and start developing a new component: a top bar! (might be seen on https://hostgator.com.br
ocasionally)


thursday
2023-01-12

did most of the logic for the top bar. getting familiar with props and their types. this
project uses typescript. it feels like a hurdle at first but very pleasant after a while.
except for typing click functions. created props for top bar title, link and behavior open
in new tab behavior: window.open(target, openInNewTab ? '_blank' : 'self').


friday
2023-01-13

getting habituated with asking questions more frequently: was unsure how to unit test a 
component in jest + React Testing Library. it's a generic top bar component that receives
a link, and I am testing the onClick behavior. but i don't pass it an onClick prop? i was
oriented to use Object.defineProperty on global object, add a location property and assign
it a link.


monday
2023-01-16

got assigned a simple css fix. done in minutes. waiting for validation. extra meetings
besides daily, to align priorities and refine our focus during Q1 2023. had no tasks for
a while after lunch, got called out (don't do this). rescued an incomplete task from December,
adding of a table.


tuesday
2023-01-17

css fix validated. pr reviewed instantly, since it was a one-liner. managed to squeeze this
change into today's deploy. win. meeting addressing some paradigm shifts in our engineering
culture. focus is moving away from one-team === one-product towards one-team === macro-goals.
more on this soon.


wednesday
2023-01-18

even more meetings, busy week. ubuntu 20.04 is crashing three to five times a day, forcing a
laptop restart + vpn reconnect, teams reconnect and e-mail reconnect. my workflow is terrible
right now.


thursday
2023-01-19

got assigned a very exciting accessibility task for the new project. basically hunting improvements
to increase pagespeed score. learned how to get insights for performance and accessibility in a VPN
protected url and localhost as well.


friday
2023-01-20

adding alts, renaming links and overall accessibility improvements. very interesting meeting by the
afternoon to address some of the squad challenges for Q1. very technical and challenging to follow.


monday
2023-01-23

tinkering with accessibility insights. had a few back and forths with the PO on the table task.
ultimately approved. unapproved right after by tech lead. severe disalignment issues. after a
few hours of trying + asking for help, he told me that it is a simple react-slick change:
slidesToShow={3} => slidesToShow{2}, since I ported this table from another page with 3 columns
but this one has only 2.


tuesday
2023-01-24

PR for accessibility got denied. i hard coded the aria labels + wrote them in English. it would be
ideal to receive them from each page's content, so that it is relevant for Mexico, Colombia and
Chile users. we operate in these 3 countries besides Brazil.


wednesday
2023-01-25

planning at 9AM. it will be a relatively relaxed sprint for the front-end team, we are below
capacity. this might + will change in the coming days. ended accessibility task + table addition
task. heading into accessibility 2: the return of the king. this one has the changes that I couldn't
make in time in the last task. 


thursday
2023-01-26

tweaking of the accessibility task and the table task. yet to be approved. i will present our new
project alongside a colleague next tuesday. quick chat with him in the afternoon. what, why, when
and how will this new project impact our company? these are the answers i want to answer.


friday
2023-01-27

2 of my PRs that were pending got approved! got assigned a task to update the skeleton (loading) layout
for another product. had a front-end guild meeting at 3PM, showed up on time. got cancelled due to 
insufficient quorum, overall a slow day.